# TradingModel
## Introduction
This model takes a momentum-based trading strategy and filters signals into "buy" and "sell" based on an XGBoost classification algorithm. Specifically, the algorithm forms what I call a "Candle Pocket" for the signal by taking a window of the OHLCV time-series data prior to the signal generated by the momentum-based strategy. It then uses the Candle Pocket time-series data to generate a large collection of features for the machine learning algorithm, namely time-series characteristics such as entropy and autocorrelation, as well as traditional market indicators such as RSI and stochastic oscillators. Relevant features are then extracted based on statistical significance tests, and the newly formed Candle Pockets are used to train an XGBoost model, classifying each Candle Pocket as a "buy" or a "sell".

## Main Files
### SymbolPreprocess
This file downloads, cleans and processes data for several cryptocurrency symbols. An algorithm automatically labels the downloaded data based on the manual momentum-based trading strategy. Candle Pockets are then formed using these signals and time-series and indicator feature engineering is performed. Relevant features are extracted and some basic data visualisation is performed.

### SymbolModel_XGBOOST
This file takes in the data generated in `SymbolPreprocess.ipynb` and prepares it for the ML model. Data is cleaned and split into train and test sets, and the model is trained. Some basic hyperparameter optimisation is also performed.
